# Project 0: Getting Real

## Preliminaries

>Fill in your name and email address.

FirstName LastName <zhiruiw@andrew.cmu.edu>

>If you have any preliminary comments on your submission, notes for the TAs, please give them here.



>Please cite any offline or online sources you consulted while preparing your submission, other than the Pintos documentation, course text, lecture notes, and course staff.



## Booting Pintos

>A1: Put the screenshot of Pintos running example here.



## Debugging

#### QUESTIONS: BIOS 

>B1: What is the first instruction that gets executed?
>A1: ljmp



>B2: At which physical address is this instruction located?
>A2: 0xffff0




#### QUESTIONS: BOOTLOADER

>B3: How does the bootloader read disk sectors? In particular, what BIOS interrupt is used?
>A3: Use int 0x13 as the interrupt instruction to read the specific disk sector, where the specific index of the disk sectors are pre-set.



>B4: How does the bootloader decides whether it successfully finds the Pintos kernel?
>A4: There are several steps:
>  1. read_sector to see if it is a valid driver
>  2. check_partition to see if it is unused. Also compare the %es:4(%si) with 0x20 to see if it is a pintos kernel
>  3. also see if it is a bootable partition



>B5: What happens when the bootloader could not find the Pintos kernel?
>A5: Use int $0x18 to notify BIOS that boot failed



>B6: At what point and how exactly does the bootloader transfer control to the Pintos kernel?
>A6: from this line: 7c7e:	e8 66 00 0d 4c       	call   4c0d7ce9 <__bss_start+0x4c0cfee9>



#### QUESTIONS: KERNEL

>B7: At the entry of pintos_init(), what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?



>B8: When `palloc_get_page()` is called for the first time,

>> B8.1 what does the call stack look like?
>>
>> 

>> B8.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 

>> B8.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 



>B9: When palloc_get_page() is called for the third time,

>> B9.1 what does the call stack look like?
>>
>> 

>> B9.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 

>> B9.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 



## Kernel Monitor

>C1: Put the screenshot of your kernel monitor running example here. (It should show how your kernel shell respond to `whoami`, `exit`, and `other input`.)

#### 

>C2: Explain how you read and write to the console for the kernel monitor.
